Setup doc for oryx (#1683)
spryker/spryker-docs: _drafts/oryx/setup.md

# Setup

> You can install Oryx on your local environment. The installation typically takes a few minutes to be up and running. This guide explains how to set up your environment for Oryx framework development.

Author: Well, it was initial version, so @tobi-or-not-tobi suggested to extend it.

> You can install Oryx on your local environment. The installation typically takes a few minutes to be up and running. This guide explains how to set up your environment for Oryx framework development.

Reviewer: I like @AndreyYevtukhov suggestion

> You can install Oryx on your local environment. The installation typically takes a few minutes to be up and running. This guide explains how to set up your environment for Oryx framework development.

Author: Fun fact it's exactly initial version :)

> You can install Oryx on your local environment. The installation typically takes a few minutes to be up and running. This guide explains how to set up your environment for Oryx framework development.

Reviewer 2: revert it))) 
that's the typical docs review process - you go here and there 10 times till it stabilises)

That's why I asked if we have some "doc" related rules - to make it not 10 times but 5)

> You can install Oryx on your local environment. The installation typically takes a few minutes to be up and running. This guide explains how to set up your environment for Oryx framework development.

Reviewer: sorry guys, the weather has changed I guess ;)

## Prerequisites

To install Oryx on your local system, you need the following:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) or compatible Javascript runtime
- npm package manager

> - A [Spryker storefront API](https://docs.spryker.com/docs/scos/dev/glue-api-guides/202204.0/glue-rest-api.html) (a public API is provided by default to get you up and running quick)

Reviewer 3: How do I fulfill this requirement?

Author: There are several possible ways: use publicly available API or install Spryker instance locally. We want to provide our boilerplate with default public API so users can skip this step at the beginning. We can basically add a link to the Spryker Installation guide :)

Reviewer 3: Since the only way we describe the installation is using the boilerplate, does it make sense to put it as a requirement?

Author: You mean to add a boilerplate as a requirement?

Reviewer 3: I mean to remove this requirement because the API is included with the boilerplate

Author: Not really sure. The boilerplate is just a recommended and easiest way to start work with Oryx, but not the only one.

Reviewer: No, let's keep it with the installation guide. If there's is a Spryker documentation on the GLUE API we could link to it would be great.

## Installation

To install Oryx you can use the [boilerplate project](https://github.com/spryker/composable-frontend) that we've prepared for you. In this repository you'll will find the minimum dependencies and configuration to install a standard Oryx application.

The installation can be done with the following steps. This will install the dependencies and run the application.

```
git clone https://github.com/spryker/composable-frontend
cd composable-frontend
npm i
npm run dev
```

Application will be available on `localhost:3000` by default.

To better understand how the minimal boilerplate works, you can find more details in the [boilerplate guide](./boilerplate.md).

## Builders/bundlers

> The best choice to start with Oryx framework is Vite, but Oryx is also compatible with every modern frontend builder/bundler, such as rollup, parcel, webpack, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended build tool for Oryx is [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/). However,  Oryx is compatible with a wide variety of build tools, such as rollup, parcel, webpack, etc.
```

> The build tool must support [exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#package-entry-points) entry point in package.json as long as Oryx is using it in every package to split logical part of package into sub-packages.

Reviewer: Wonder if we should talk about building here. I can imagine this deserves a dedicated section where we go into production builds.

Author: Agree that we should put this information somewhere, but as for me it's not relevant to setup. Maybe `packages` doc?

Reviewer: new build doc I'd say

Author: Ok, created a task for it.

> The build tool must support [exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#package-entry-points) entry point in package.json as long as Oryx is using it in every package to split logical part of package into sub-packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build tool must [support exporting entry points](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#package-entry-points)  in package.json (sicne Oryx uses exports in every package to split logical parts to sub-packages).
```

# Setup

> This guide explains how to set up your environment for Oryx framework development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install Oryx on your local environment. The installation typically takes a few mins to be up and running. This guide explains how to set up your environment for Oryx framework development.
```

## Prerequisites

To use the Oryx framework, you should be familiar with the following:

- Javascript
- CSS

> - HTML

Reviewer: This is about installation, and those technologies are not required for someone who wants to install it (e.g. devops guy, business analyst, etc.)

Reviewer: So, let's drop js, css, html here. we'll discuss that in parts where we talk about customisations.

To install Oryx on your local system, you need the following:

> - active LTS or maintenance LTS version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) or compatible Javascript runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) or compatible Javascript runtime
```

- npm package manager

> Also you need to have [Spryker Glue API](https://docs.spryker.com/docs/scos/dev/glue-api-guides/202204.0/glue-rest-api.html) up and running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [Spryker storefront API](https://docs.spryker.com/docs/scos/dev/glue-api-guides/202204.0/glue-rest-api.html) (a public API is provided by default to get you up and running quick)
```

## Installation

> To start working with Oryx you can use the [boilerplate project](https://github.com/spryker/composable-frontend) that we've prepared for you. In this repository you'll will find the minimum dependencies and configuration to install a standard Oryx application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install Oryx you can use the [boilerplate project](https://github.com/spryker/composable-frontend) that we've prepared for you. In this repository you'll will find the minimum dependencies and configuration to install a standard Oryx application.
```

> There is a list of commands to clone repository, install dependencies and run the application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The installation can be done with the following steps. This will install the dependencies and run the application.
```

```
git clone https://github.com/spryker/composable-frontend
cd composable-frontend
npm i
npm run dev
```

Application will be available on `localhost:3000` by default.

> Follow boilerplate guide for more information - see Boilerplate article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To better understand how the minimal boilerplate works, you can find more details in the [boilerplate guide](./boilerplate.md).
```

## Builders/bundlers

The best choice to start with Oryx framework is Vite, but Oryx is also compatible with every modern frontend builder/bundler, such as rollup, parcel, webpack, etc.
The build tool must support [exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#package-entry-points) entry point in package.json as long as Oryx is using it in every package to split logical part of package into sub-packages.

## Packages

> All Oryx framework [packages](https://www.npmjs.com/org/spryker-oryx) provides their code as [ES Modules](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v13.x/docs/api/esm.html#esm_ecmascript_modules).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oryx is distributed on [npmjs.com](https://www.npmjs.com/org/spryker-oryx).  
```

# Setup

This guide explains how to set up your environment for Oryx framework development.

## Prerequisites

To use the Oryx framework, you should be familiar with the following:

- Javascript
- CSS
- HTML

Knowledge of Typescript will be a plus but it's not required.

To install Oryx on your local system, you need the following:

> - active LTS or maintenance LTS version of [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)

Author: Probably here we can use `node.js compatible` or even `javascript runtime` term. But at the same time I don't think we want to support all possible versions of these, so it's better to specify a tool and version we are sure.

- npm package manager
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) version control system

> Also you need to have [Spryker backend](https://docs.spryker.com/docs/scos/dev/setup/setup.html) up and running.

Reviewer 2: you need it locally?

---

theoretically, for storefront, you only need **GLUE API** up and running **somewhere**, other stuff is not so important, right?

Reviewer: Yes, I'd expect a section on the env file that we have:
- explain the variables, explain that you can connect your custom backend
- explain the standard file 
honestly, it would be even better to make a link to a seperate page that describes the env.

## Installation

To start working with Oryx you will need a tiny boilerplate project. In this project you will find all the necessary configuration, dependencies and code to start working with Oryx.

> Clone bootstrap repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone repository:
```

```
git clone https://github.com/spryker/composable-frontend
```

> To install application you just need to install npm dependencies:

Reviewer 2: you also have to `cd` in the cloned repo:

```
git clone https://github.com/spryker/composable-frontend
cd composable-frontend
npm i
```

```
npm i
```

## Run application

To run application:

```
npm run dev
```

Application will be available on `localhost:3000` by default.

> Follow boilerplate guide for more information - see Boilerplate article.

Reviewer 2: `see Boilerplate article` -> should we put a link here? (at least for an empty doc)

Reviewer: yes and visa versa. let's do it when one of them is ready and we add links later

## Builders/bundlers

> Oryx framework is compatible with every modern frontend builder/bundler, such as rollup, vite, webpack, etc.

Author: @AndreyYevtukhov rephrased.

The only limitation it should support [exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#package-entry-points) entry point in package.json.

## Packages

> All Oryx framework packages provides their code as ES Modules which is a standard in frontend web development nowadays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All Oryx framework packages provides their code as ES Modules.
```

Author: > Maybe a link to the npm org? Or do we plan to cover this elsewhere?

Added a link to https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v13.x/docs/api/esm.html#esm_ecmascript_modules. Or not sure what you mean :)

Reviewer: I meant a link to our spryker-oryx org on npm
